Jerry Michalski: This is the Open Global Mind weekly call on Thursday, November 13th, 2025.
Jerry Michalski: We have a fun topic today.
Jerry Michalski: Which is, what happened to curiosity?
Jerry Michalski: I think I have a funny feeling that many of us have
Jerry Michalski: Our own theories about this, our own hypotheses.
Jerry Michalski: So I'm interested, maybe, in collecting up a couple of those before we go in.
Jerry Michalski: Victoria has put a link in the chat, which we may need to put in a couple times, because as people come into the room, they don't see the previous chat, so we'll probably have to repeat it.
Jerry Michalski: But Victoria went to town on an Excalibra board that is multi-user, so everybody can go look at it. Maybe a thing I can do…
Kevin Jones: Actually…
Jerry Michalski: Definitely a thing I can do is screen share mine… my screen, so that everybody can see it on mine for a moment.
Jerry Michalski: So here is… The Excalibur drawboard, I see that several people are already in it.
Jerry Michalski: And, you can scroll around.
Jerry Michalski: And this looks way more interesting and elaborate than when it started, which was, I guess, yesterday morning. So, fabulous, love this work.
Jerry Michalski: And, I think everybody can go ahead and add things. I believe, and Victoria, if you want to do a tutorial, let me know, and you can take over, but just for the moment.
Jerry Michalski: If you wanted to add a box with some comments, see the little menu at the top, click on the rectangle.
Jerry Michalski: And then,
Jerry Michalski: basically make a box, and start typing in it, and give it a color. Over here is the color selection, if you want to, to sort of fit the mood and method of the whole thing. I'm gonna eliminate… I'm gonna try to…
Jerry Michalski: Delete my box, there we go.
Jerry Michalski: And it's pretty straightforward, and the settings right now are so that lines look like they're a little hand-drawn, and the text is a nice handwritten sort of text, which gives the whole…
Jerry Michalski: Excalibraw board, a nice feeling of, of sort of human… Humanity and,
Jerry Michalski: Looks like it was created by people drawing on a board, which is very, very nice.
Jerry Michalski: And just…
Victoria (Spain): to make everyone comfortable, I have a copy of this State of the board. So, if everything is messed, it doesn't matter.
Jerry Michalski: Beautiful! So, Victoria has taken a snapshot, and we're off to the races. So, riff on this, add to it, do whatever. Victoria, anything you want to add to what I just described?
Victoria (Spain): Well, my only… Remark is what it's at the top left corner.
Victoria (Spain): because… In that… in… in the mail, We were given many solutions.
Victoria (Spain): And closing very early the problem.
Victoria (Spain): And that's not what we should strive for. We should strive for open as many questions as possible. So if instead of saying.
Victoria (Spain): Education closes curiosity. We state it as a question.
Victoria (Spain): Does education close up?
Victoria (Spain): Then we will have more things to work with.
Jerry Michalski: Sounds great. I tend to think of it as just the positing of multiple theories instead of the choosing of one.
Victoria (Spain): What?
Jerry Michalski: Close it down.
Victoria (Spain): The thing is, gathering all the opinions, but trying to show that we are not closing, but opening.
Jerry Michalski: Perfect. Sounds great.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you, thank you. So, with that, I'll stop my screen share and hope that everybody can follow the links and get, into the Excalodraw.
Jerry Michalski: And see if anybody wants to take an opening step, or… Victoria, if you want to take an opening step into the conversation, that would be great, too.
Victoria (Spain): Well, for me, as you have seen, it's,
Victoria (Spain): like, an ongoing theme? Like, when I first talked to you, Jerry, and you said that trust and consumerism were your things.
Victoria (Spain): So, the other day, I understood that this also has been always a concern for me.
Victoria (Spain): And seeing how it exploded in the community, I thought, okay, instead of each of us, like, taking it to one place or another.
Victoria (Spain): why don't we get everything inside, so we can maybe decide we can work, because here today I have, the issue of access that links with the
Victoria (Spain): The fact that you say, books are, like, fossil knowledge?
Victoria (Spain): It's trapped. There are also the silos.
Victoria (Spain): the academia, that you need subscriptions, paid subscriptions to… so, there are a lot of things going on, so maybe…
Victoria (Spain): we must, like, gather everything, and start thinking how this relates to different OGM projects.
Victoria (Spain): Or maybe different things that can start from here.
Victoria (Spain): So the… my…
Victoria (Spain): I wanted to link this issue with the other issues that are going around in the community.
Jerry Michalski: Brilliant. Thank you, that's great. I love that.
Jerry Michalski: Kevin, please.
Kevin Jones: Is the premise that we are losing, or curiosity is being diminished?
Kevin Jones: If that's it, I completely disagree, so I'm curious.
Jerry Michalski: I, I think, I think the question started as, hey, kids in school seem incurious.
Jerry Michalski: things like that are happening, like, are we losing curiosity? And I think, in general, the room will agree with you that, no, no, no. And in particular, we have a selection bias problem here, which is that I think everybody in this room is, like, really, really curious, and probably hangs out with really curious people.
Jerry Michalski: But, Victoria, I don't know if you want to address that, or anybody else.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'll say something on it. Oh, Scott, sorry, you were too ahead of me.
Jerry Michalski: Oh, I guess I hit my buzzer faster than you.
Scott Moehring: What… what struck me as interesting in this, I agree with you, Jerry, that we have a
Scott Moehring: a bias of the people in the room, because this room attracts those kinds of people, and my art.
Scott Moehring: Argument would be that this group tends to be high in openness.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So if we look at the Big Five personality model, which is the…
Scott Moehring: We're a statistically verified model of personality.
Scott Moehring: Openness is one of the five dimensions.
Scott Moehring: And that to mention, is… People who tend to be creative, interested in intellectual pursuits.
Scott Moehring: Open to new things and new ways, curious.
Scott Moehring: And it exists on a spectrum.
Scott Moehring: There are people who are low in openness.
Scott Moehring: And neither end of the spectrum is…
Scott Moehring: Evolutionarily better, which is why we have
Scott Moehring: the spectrum. Sometimes you need to be less open, and you need to be more…
Scott Moehring: Literal, or more practical, or more…
Scott Moehring: tradition, or history, or ritual. And sometimes you need to be more open, and more accepting, and more combining, and more far-reaching, and that sort of thing, which is why my understanding of it is why we have both ends. But my thought is, is that
Scott Moehring: If we're looking for people who are… or if we're seeing things where evidence of less curious, we're going to continue to notice that
Scott Moehring: all of those instances where people are less curious, and I think those are the people who are
Scott Moehring: Less on the open side, and… that I,
Scott Moehring: I tend to agree that it's not… I haven't seen a sea change in that, but that was one thing I wanted to put out there, is that I believe it exists on a…
Scott Moehring: a range, and that's… the Big Five model kind of supports that.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Scott.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Gil, please.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, yeah, I've raised this a couple of times out of personal experience, which may have all kinds of selection bias in it. I've observed
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: The initial assessment that I formed was that… was that people much younger than me were not curious, and how that showed up is conversations with them.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Where I would ask them questions, and they would not ask me questions.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Which I found perplexing. And I found this even more striking in networking situations, where you're meeting somebody at a conference and you're chatting.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I've been really struck at how one-way those conversations have been.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And so I've taken recently to,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: doing something I've never done before, like, start to talk about things. In the course of meeting someone new, I'll start to talk about what I'm up to, what I'm doing, what I want to talk about, what I would have wanted to be asked about.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And then the conversation proceeds kind of normally, they're interested, and there's back and forth, but the initiation, what I'm calling curiosity of asking questions about somebody else, what they're thinking, interested in, doing, or so forth.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'm noticing it in its absence, but to qualify what I just said, I was remembering last night, we… Jane and I had dinner.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: A few months ago with a person who we've known since she was, like, 12.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But she's now 55, or something like that. And, she made us a lovely buffet. We had spent the afternoon in her backyard, spent about… spent about 3 hours together.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And she didn't ask a single question of us.
Jerry Michalski: How we doing? How's your life? How's your health? She knows that Jane has been going through major health issues for many years.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: To somebody who knows her and loves her.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: didn't ask anything. I was really… I was… I became increasingly uncomfortable. I was really baffled. I didn't figure out what was weird until afterwards, but I've never been in a situation like that. So that… it echoes the question about curiosity. It challenges my assumption that it's a phenomenon of younger people, because
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: she's, you know, not younger, she's younger than us, but she's not young. So,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And one… let me throw one more data point into this, which is an old one. So, early on in Natural Logic, we were doing lots of site assessments of companies, looking at efficiency.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And footprint reduction opportunities. And,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: One of my junior staff members, who's actually not so junior, like, you know, an engineer, smart.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Analytical, had been with me on a number of these, and he finally went out on one of his own.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And when he came back, I was really struck at how… at all kinds of information that he hadn't gathered.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And we kind of unpacked what he talked with the staff at the company about, and…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I would say, well, did you ask him about ABC? He said, God, I didn't think of that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So, this is maybe not curiosity, but it's a… it's a… the map of distinctions that leads somebody on a trail of investigation. It was very striking how different his, what I called, curiosity was, and how we had to kind of, you know, train him up.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And being curious, investigating.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Let me stop there. There's more to say, but I want to not hog the mic here. I'll stop there.
Jerry Michalski: Gil, I'm really appreciating your first-person stories. I really like that, you know, this person is doing this, because I'm coming into this partly from having read a few too many stories about how incurious recent graduates seem to be when they come into work, which leads us into the education conversation. Is something happening to our kids who are busy cramming but not learning?
Jerry Michalski: Have we stamped out, sort of, inquisitiveness in the schooling system? And that… and we'll go there, but I think there's lots of other things going on that your stories are pointing to. Go ahead.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And let me just say one other thing before I yield to Alex. I put a note in the chat. I'm an etymology geek, so I started quickly looking for etymology and found this thing saying, well, there's this curious etymology, curious etymology. Curiosity relates to care.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And so in this formulation, they're saying its origins reveal a deeper truth. To be curious is to care enough to pay attention. So that may be a false trail, or that may be a relevant piece of this conversation, I don't know.
Jerry Michalski: That's lovely. I think that the etymology is important as well.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And Victoria, thank you, I stuck that into the drawing.
Jerry Michalski: Beautiful.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Maybe not.
Jerry Michalski: I saw that you did that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: There it is.
Jerry Michalski: Excellent. Alex, please.
Alex Kladitis: Thanks. I suddenly realized I didn't have it.
Alex Kladitis: So…
Alex Kladitis: The points that have been made so far are very… sorry, not very… they're on the academic side of curiosity.
Alex Kladitis: my… I thought when we first mentioned it, we'd start talking about
Alex Kladitis: The curiosity, in the sense that we're so polarized that each side, or whoever it is.
John Warinner: Top.
Alex Kladitis: And I can go through the recordings, and I can find every single… sorry, not every single… at least one example where each one of you has made a statement, and I'm thinking.
Alex Kladitis: But why don't you look at it from this point of view?
Alex Kladitis: And it'll disprove your statement, okay? Every single one of you, I'm sure, I'll come up with. It's inherent in us. We want to feel good, so it depends on the topics. If it's politics, and we're on the left or the right, we don't want to
Alex Kladitis: Challenge our mental model and belief system.
Alex Kladitis: So that's one of the obstacles to being curious.
Alex Kladitis: And it really puzzles me, because… and many people have said this in the Twittersphere or whatever.
Alex Kladitis: Wherever it is, that it's really amazing that we as humans.
Alex Kladitis: We'll go to page 1, and we'll read about some politicians announcing a new this, that, and the other.
Alex Kladitis: And say how great the politician is, if we support them. And then we'll go to number 5, you know, page 5 of a newspaper.
Alex Kladitis: And there's an article of what shy says the politicians are. And we can compartmentalize the two and not cross-feed
Alex Kladitis: If he's a shyster over there, if that part is lying over there.
Alex Kladitis: what tells you that they tell the truth here? And that, to me, it's curiosity, or…
Alex Kladitis: maybe I'm using the wrong word, which amazes me, because I do it, and I'm sure everybody else does it.
Alex Kladitis: And yet, we know it. You know, it's sort of, so the other thing was about the young. I have personal experience with my kids.
Alex Kladitis: I… what can I say?
Alex Kladitis: I enjoy talking.
Alex Kladitis: Discussing things with them, if there's no…
Alex Kladitis: belief system involved, be it politics, religion, whatever it is. We have a great conversation. But as soon as we start discussing things we care about.
Alex Kladitis: And remember, the mechanic here is, oh, Dad's an old what's-it, so he's not going to think about it the way as us.
Alex Kladitis: But what amazes me is their reluctance
Alex Kladitis: to even hear or question what the belief system… something that might challenge the belief system. It really is amazing, and I do think, Jerry, you mentioned it, it's to do with, the way we've been taught, and it isn't something that's just happened, I think it's happened over time, that we kind of…
Alex Kladitis: Maybe it's the influence of TV, because it's an acceptance machine, and on TV, you don't actually challenge anything, you just watch and enjoy. You don't interact with it, or something like that, maybe a radio as well. Maybe how the technology's grown, but
Alex Kladitis: young people… I think it's a teaching system, or what the te… they don't… they're not… the Fed information.
Alex Kladitis: And I always used to think… I always used to think I was challenged at school to think differently.
Alex Kladitis: But maybe I wasn't, I don't know. But that was the,
Alex Kladitis: That was the point I wanted to see, is that we're all doing this.
Alex Kladitis: Every day, even in this call, we will do it.
Alex Kladitis: That we're not… I… you guys call it curiosity, I call it…
Alex Kladitis: The not-standard, or what you see in front of you, point of view.
Alex Kladitis: Oh, that was it. That was me. Have you considered yourself all told off?
Alex Kladitis: For not being perfect. Totally.
Jerry Michalski: Totally, Alex, thank you. I'm thinking, at first, I am noticing that my image is flashing green every now and then. I think it's my little USB hub, which is…
Jerry Michalski: Not happy that I've got the microphone plugged in as well as the camera through it, so I'm gonna troubleshoot that, but in case you're like, what's going on with Jerry? It's not that I'm coming, phoning in from a different planet, it's that some of my systems are not cooperating properly.
Jerry Michalski: Alex, I think
Jerry Michalski: piece of what you're pointing to, I would have called critical thinking, and I'm also realizing that we could have replaced the word curiosity with the phrase critical thinking in the invite to today's call, and probably would have gotten a similar showing. And maybe that's a topic for future… it's adjacent, as Gil says, you know, right after.
Jerry Michalski: Right after my thing. Scott's unsure.
Jerry Michalski: But…
Jerry Michalski: there's a… there's a piece of what I think you're raising, Alex, which is about our identity, and our self-image, and the preservation of self.
Jerry Michalski: or the… or even… or even the development of self, and how… what we… who we think we are and where we think we stand. And I think there's an interesting bit of conversation here about
Jerry Michalski: Are we now afraid to take a stand? Are we confused about where the stands are? Do we think that taking a stand has become dangerous, because of the level of… the poor level of discourse out there in the public arena?
Jerry Michalski: Are we afraid of being canceled, or afraid of being pounded, or trolled, or whatever else? And those all seem, you know, more or less legitimate in the current environment.
Jerry Michalski: Let me go to Pete. And Alex, if you'll take your hand down from before.
Jerry Michalski: Pete, please.
Pete Kaminski: Thank you, Jerry. And, Alex, thanks for telling us all off. I appreciate it.
Pete Kaminski: I… I guess I wanted to say that I don't…
Pete Kaminski: I see declines in curiosity, but I think we… I also see, increases in curiosity, too. So I think it… it changes… the landscape keeps changing. I certainly know there are places where we kill curiosity.
Pete Kaminski: Living in an entertainment culture where you're supposed to sit back and consume, but not participate.
Pete Kaminski: is obviously a bad thing. The way that we do education, I, you know, as a kid growing up in school, there were lots of ways teachers killed my curiosity.
Pete Kaminski: And… and worse for other people in my classes.
Pete Kaminski: I wanted to… the reason I raised my hand and wanted to say something was because of Gil's story about the person that he and Jane know, that didn't ask, didn't ask
Pete Kaminski: you know, about them. And it reminds me… I learned from Joanne, my wife,
Pete Kaminski: to be able to have, to be able to be curious and have a conversation with somebody, even if maybe you don't care in the grander scheme of things, or you're shy, or whatever. I'm… I'm kind of shy.
Pete Kaminski: And it's just a rote thing, right? It's just human and polite, to be sitting with somebody and to ask them, you know, you know, how's your life? Do you have pets? Do you have friends? You know, where did you grow up? Those kinds of things. It's not hard to do.
Pete Kaminski: And…
Pete Kaminski: I know I went from somebody who didn't have that as a skill that I was ever taught, really, by my parents, or my peers, or my school. I learned that very quickly from Joanne. And so…
Pete Kaminski: one of, certainly some curiosity is innate. I've got a lot of innate curiosity, and probably most of the people in this… in this room do. The place where I see that most nowadays is actually, working with AI. I've spent a lot of time showing people how, you know, this AI thing, and there are a lot of people who…
Pete Kaminski: they play with it for a little bit, and it doesn't do anything interesting, and then they're done. And, you know, I'm like, well, I'm… I… when I tried playing with it, it was actually hard work, I remember.
Pete Kaminski: having to sit down and go, okay, what can I do with it now? What crazy thing could I give it, you know? You know, I used to do things like write poetry in three different languages, come up with a short story that starts with blah, come up with, you know, all kinds of crazy stuff.
Pete Kaminski: And it was not second nature to do that with this new, information tool. It was something I had to work through, but…
Pete Kaminski: I was so curious about, I worked through it. And I see a lot of people bouncing off new technology, because of that.
Pete Kaminski: Same thing, you know, when people adopted the internet. Same thing when people adopted PCs. You know, I was an early adopter of those, and I was like, you know, I don't know what it does, but let me find out. Let me try to break it, let me try to do crazy stuff with it. Can it do this? Can it do that?
Pete Kaminski: So…
Pete Kaminski: some… some is definitely innate. Some curiosity is definitely innate, but another thing that Gil's story made me realize is some curiosity is a social practice.
Pete Kaminski: you know, I…
Pete Kaminski: Somewhere in our world, it ought to end up that you get taught by your peers, or your school, or your parents, or somebody, you know, here's some things that you can do to…
Pete Kaminski: enact curiosity, even if you're not particularly interested, just enact it as a social practice, because it helps everybody. You know, it helps, it helps people feel good when you talk about them. It helps people…
Pete Kaminski: It helps you learn stuff that you wouldn't have known otherwise when you're, you know, got a few hours riding in a carriage, or in an airplane, or whatever we do nowadays.
Pete Kaminski: So that was what I wanted to say. Thanks.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Pete.
Jerry Michalski: Stacy.
Stacey Druss: Thanks, Pete. I have to address what you said first, or maybe second.
Stacey Druss: Yeah, I'll do… I'll do that after.
Stacey Druss: Or maybe I… you maybe have to get that out of the way first.
Stacey Druss: I'm just on the other side of, yeah.
Stacey Druss: Curiosity, when it's not genuine, can also be really annoying.
Stacey Druss: It's, it's like… Yeah, let me just get that off my chest, because it… At least for me.
Stacey Druss: I don't know if it's… if I want to say as a woman or not.
Stacey Druss: As someone who sometimes feels or has felt disempowered.
Stacey Druss: Sometimes curiosity can feel like I have to explain myself.
Stacey Druss: So I just want to put that out there.
Jerry Michalski: And she was, like, crying?
Stacey Druss: Say it again?
Jerry Michalski: It feels like prying, you mean, or…
Stacey Druss: Yeah, or, like, having to justify why I'm doing what I'm doing. When it's genuine, it's wonderful.
Pete Kaminski: And if I may, when I learned
Pete Kaminski: this kind of social curiosity from Joyan.
Pete Kaminski: Her observation as a woman was…
Pete Kaminski: men are acculturated to not be curious, especially about women, about lots of stuff, right? And so, in a way, it was a kind of women's work that she doesn't mind doing because it's not the worst thing that women have to do in this world. But…
Pete Kaminski: she was always… she felt like she was always the one who were like, you know, it's not that hard, guys. Just ask questions. And you're… you're entirely correct. Insincere curiosity is… is worse than just shutting up. However.
Pete Kaminski: I would also say, it's… it's not hard at all to learn to ask humbly and be genuinely interested in the answer, where did you grow up? You know, it's not…
Pete Kaminski: it's… it's, I can ask that question and not care about the answer, but it's not hard as a social practice for me to say, I really do care where you grew up. And I hope you ask if… where I grew up too, but, you know, if you don't, I understand that you're not…
Pete Kaminski: you're not as careful as I am, or you're not as polite, or whatever, I'm gonna, like, shine that on. And I know women have to do that a lot more than men, so…
Stacey Druss: Yeah, and you know, I'm probably the wrong person, because I'm not doing anything I don't want to do. So I'm sorry, anybody. I don't pro… I probably don't care where you live, so somebody else will ask you.
Pete Kaminski: Well, you ask even better questions, Stacy, but, you know, there's a set of, like, five questions that even a man can learn, you know? Ask this question, really care about the answer, and there's probably a follow-up question, you know? Where did you go to school? You know, it's pretty simple to use.
Stacey Druss: Let me, let me, let me.
Pete Kaminski: I'm sorry to have interrupted you. Now I'm curious what you're going to say.
Stacey Druss: Okay, this is what I want to… I want to go back to… I want to connect to where Gil was speaking, because I… so I was reminded of, George Mombia, where he says, where we don't have the story, we make up one, and I want to connect
Stacey Druss: to Gil's stories.
Stacey Druss: So, when he was speaking about, like, coaching and… I was thinking.
Stacey Druss: So, the people that don't ask questions then, the story that I made up in my mind, is that sometimes people that are either younger, or if I could replace that with less experience, because they might be the same age, but they might be less experienced.
Stacey Druss: Sometimes they haven't had the space to talk, and so they don't want to ask questions and hear experience, because they are just dying to have somebody hear them. So I want to throw that out.
Stacey Druss: And as far as the people that were talking to Jane, sometimes people are afraid to hear the answers, and they're so uncomfortable with sickness, and they don't want to know.
Stacey Druss: And I wanted to throw that out, too, because sometimes really caring, loving people
Stacey Druss: Are just so uncomfortable with feelings and don't know what to say.
Stacey Druss: And that calls in, you know, the curiosity kind of killed the cat thing, so sometimes we don't ask questions. Well, I'm looking at the lawyer in the corner. Doug, you're in the corner, and it's like, don't ask the question that you don't know the answer to.
Stacey Druss: So,
Stacey Druss: those are some stories that came… some possible stories. I tend to be somebody… I will ask the question, because I don't want to make up a story in my head.
Stacey Druss: it's usually… I've found in my life, it's better to ask the question and know for sure than to just imagine what the answer is. And do I have any other questions? Anything? Okay, I think… I think I covered everything I wanted to say.
Stacey Druss: Over.
Jerry Michalski: Hey, thank you, Stacy. You're reminding me of a conversation I'm having on LinkedIn, where I put a post in about futurists and future visions and how they're all kind of crappy, and a friend of mine posted in the comments about
Jerry Michalski: maybe we don't need future visions. Maybe what we need is to be really present. And it kind of flipped the game on me, and it was really interesting, because I find that…
Jerry Michalski: whatever model I have of where we're going, and the competing models of where we're going, I love that conversation and that battle, but I also find that my behavior changes enormously depending on what I think
Jerry Michalski: what I think I want in the future. I need those visions in order to figure out what… how to be present.
Jerry Michalski: And so, I haven't seen her response to that, but we're in the middle of that conversation right now, it's kind of cool.
Jerry Michalski: Mr. Jones, thanks for your patience.
Kevin Jones: Thank you.
Kevin Jones: Well, you know, I think my success in life has been based on not paying attention in school, because I never could figure out what they wanted, and it didn't seem like much. But then when I got into business, I understood I was in a fluid, dynamic system that people were passionate about, and they were making things and buying things and selling things, and it was my briar patch.
Kevin Jones: And I'm running my friend Ben Santer, and his story, I think, is really relevant.
Kevin Jones: He was a PhD candidate who failed three times and was working in day labor in Seattle, and the one professor who still believed in him got him a gig of copying maps in an ag weather
Kevin Jones: company. And he suddenly understood climate, and it was a big enough thing, just like school wasn't big enough, climate was. He was the author of the first UN report on climate.
Kevin Jones: And one of the reasons he was the author is he had a really, you know, his ego was really in check, because he remembered he… if he hadn't had that one day labor come through, he would still be
Kevin Jones: you know, day laborers don't stay very stable, and so he was the one everybody trusted, and it was only when he… he just saw
Kevin Jones: you know, a weather map of Kansas.
Kevin Jones: and, you know, what was going to happen to Korn, and suddenly understood the system he was in. And, you know, he and I are similar in that way, is that, you know, again, not paying attention to school was a great gift, and… because I found the place where I did fit, you know, it was a…
Kevin Jones: fluid, dynamic system, you know, with elements of reciprocity. And so, men was the same way. So I think, you know.
Kevin Jones: I think you have to survive school, but I don't see people low… you know, it's just, they hadn't found the, you know, their briar patch, that's what I think.
Jerry Michalski: Hmm. Thanks, Kevin.
Jerry Michalski: Scott.
Scott Moehring: I want to throw a…
Scott Moehring: scatterbomb of different ideas, so I'm looking for a theme here. Alright, this is one I don't know.
Scott Moehring: I like this idea that Pete had brought up about
Scott Moehring: asking people. I do it all the time. I talk to the people at the checkout line.
Scott Moehring: In the grocery store, and things like that.
Scott Moehring: I like to think as a 59-year-old, that I'm not that creepy old guy.
Scott Moehring: that I'm actually sincere, that I'm actually… we have a pleasant exchange, that I know a little something about them.
Scott Moehring: What they're like, and… and it's… it's…
Scott Moehring: It's better than a simply pure transactional.
Scott Moehring: I'm wondering, and this is the part that I don't know, is…
Scott Moehring: Are we… are our young people being raised to not do that?
Scott Moehring: because… We don't want to discriminate.
Scott Moehring: based on… Any of the discrimination
Scott Moehring: Factors that we shouldn't discriminate on, and that we shouldn't be intrusive, as you said, and that the idea of
Scott Moehring: Sharing things about yourself.
Scott Moehring: Is more often, or can be used, especially online, for insult rather than connection.
Scott Moehring: And we're going to seek to avoid pain more than we are
Scott Moehring: towards pleasure. And the internet's forever, you know, and so online, if you share personal things about yourself.
Scott Moehring: They're… they're…
Scott Moehring: Generally unneeded for the conversation that you're having, because it's about some other topic, or it's not germane.
Scott Moehring: It can be used against you, and maybe you… maybe that's part of it, personally, and the other part is that maybe we're taught, don't… don't ask those things, we are not supposed to…
Scott Moehring: inquire about… Race and religion and gender and all of those things, because it's… it causes trouble, and…
Scott Moehring: the last thought that I had that was all connected into that was that I… Met my wife online.
Scott Moehring: And I say often that it was the best thing.
Scott Moehring: The best thing, because I had to meet the person.
Scott Moehring: Before I could meet the person.
Scott Moehring: it stripped away all the… all the other stuff. I just had to… I had to get to know this individual.
Scott Moehring: And it has worked out extremely well because of that.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Scott.
Jerry Michalski: Victoria.
Victoria (Spain): I just wanted to make a real follow-up on this conversation about caring by presenting you all my friend Gabrielle, who has joined us, because this.
Gabriele G: equivalent.
Victoria (Spain): We were walking together.
Victoria (Spain): he in Italy, I'm in Spain, but we were working together, and I asked… I told him about this session, and since he's young.
Victoria (Spain): So, this is a different perspective.
Victoria (Spain): And since he's studying to be a teacher or help people learn, I thought it was important that we can hear his voice, even if he's not raising the hand.
Victoria (Spain): That's odd.
Jerry Michalski: Victoria, thank you very much, and I was sort of looking for a place to say hi to Gabriele, and let him jump in. If you'd like to say anything or just introduce yourself, please feel free right now.
Gabriele G: Okay, thank you. It's so curious to be here, just the connection that happens, through internet.
Gabriele G: It's outstanding to me. I'm glad to hear your conversation. By now, I don't want to jump in, because…
Gabriele G: I… I'm still trying to put my thoughts in order, but it's really…
Gabriele G: Good things to be here. So, thank you for having, opened your door, internet door, for me, now.
Jerry Michalski: That's great, thank you. What city in Italy are you in?
Gabriele G: I am Padua, near Venice.
Jerry Michalski: Very cool. Thank you, thank you so much.
Gabriele G: Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Cool. Lp1, are you Don Bergen, or Louise King, or…
LP1: I'm Louise. Hello, everyone.
Jerry Michalski: You're Louise, okay. You look so much like my friend Don. That's very funny. Thanks for joining us, Louise.
LP1: Yes, and I've joined today because I am, teaching… I'm teaching in an international section in a French lisse, and,
LP1: I'm trying to decide whether I am seeing a decline in curiosity and confidence in my classroom, or whether it's just I'm getting old. We always hear that from, you know, the previous generation, or the young people today. They're not curious, they're not whatever.
LP1: But I would say that the last couple of years, I have really begun to wonder if it's me or if it's them. Some of the things I see is I do see
LP1: Many students lacking in confidence, they're asking some of the most basic things. Can I use color mist? Can I use whiteout?
LP1: Should I underline? Should I… and it's like, I have to say to them, you can make those decisions. They aren't challenging decisions, they're not important decisions. You can make those for yourself.
LP1: And I am seeing this anxiety of them, you know, making the simplest of moves.
LP1: The other one is, I really think I've seen a decline in attention.
LP1: And, focus and involvement in tasks.
LP1: I was reflecting on a particular class that I gave an assessment to recently, and I've done the same assessment, perhaps, for the past 4 or 5 years, and literally, it's the very worst.
LP1: performance I've ever had. So I'm the same teacher in the room, and this is a reasonable performance across… I know there are lots of factors there.
LP1: So that's one of the reasons I'm here. I've got a bit of a thing about technology. I'm a maths teacher, and definitely with the use of calculators, I've seen a great decline in students' mental abilities.
LP1: Now, there is the feeling that that doesn't matter. They're using calculators, and as long as they can still think mathematically, it doesn't matter if they're not doing calculations, or they're not graphing, or they're not.
LP1: But I wonder if it does diminish their mental capacity for understanding if they haven't done it themselves. So now I see them using ChatGPT to literally write their essays.
LP1: We're going to see a decline in the skills of, writing, of, expressing their ideas, in the written word.
LP1: Although, again, you could argue, does that matter? We're moving away from the printed word, we're moving back to, video, to the spoken word, spreading ideas through the spoken word. So, is it important if they can no longer.
iPhone (11): I should…
LP1: Right?
LP1: So I'm full of all these… these questions about my situation. I did… I did have that thought that, because I see this, is curiosity innate, or can we teach it?
LP1: I try to teach problem solving. I see some students are just there, they just… they just have ideas, they try them out, it doesn't work, they'll try something different, they might be asking questions.
LP1: And I see other students who simply are there going, I don't know what to do. And I…
LP1: have never seen myself, despite I've tried hard, I've tried different methods, I've never seen a student learn how to problem solve. They either seem to have it, or they don't. They might be really great at lots of other things, so that's brilliant, but they're not… they're not doing that aspect of it.
LP1: I'm sorry to go on, but I've got a couple of other things to say.
Jerry Michalski: Can you tell us what… can you tell us what grade you teach, just so I can…
LP1: I teach… I don't know what… I don't know what the French grades are. Just let me tell you, I teach from… I teach 11-year-olds through to 17-year-olds.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you, please continue.
LP1: I was, we've been talking about the curiosity in social situations as well. I have a very poor memory for vocabulary. I have to be immersed in a vocabulary for quite a long time. I'm probably dyslexic, but too old to have had any, certification.
LP1: I dread talking to people and trying to be curious about them, because I won't remember the details, and the worst thing that can happen to me is I meet them again, so if I meet any of you again, I can't remember the name, I can't remember where they live, they've told me all these things about them, and for that sort of detail, my head is a sieve. So I think there are all sorts of things, if you're talking about curiosity in social situations, you've got your culture, you've got your upbringing.
LP1: And you've got your confidence in, you know, maintaining those, relationships,
LP1: over… over a period of time. So, maybe that's enough from me. Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: That's delightful. Luis, thank you for joining us. You reminded me that sitting behind me is my dad's old slide rule.
Jerry Michalski: And, that I once…
Jerry Michalski: Many, many, many years ago in my youth, knew how to run it, and understood, because my dad had sort of approached it that way, that the slide rule is a fantastic way to estimate things, that engineers were able to just quickly ballpark things.
Jerry Michalski: To do the… is it Fermi? One of the physicists was, Feynman, Fermi, one of those, who was really good at, sort of, quick estimations of large-scale things, so we're kind of losing that as well.
LP1: Young students can't do mental arithmetic, they just don't understand, and they think I'm a genius because I can do mental arithmetic on the board while I'm solving problems. I mean, they're in.
Jerry Michalski: The movie Idiocracy?
LP1: I haven't, I'll look it out.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Just so I… Yeah, it's Eric.
Jerry Michalski: it's, alas, a little bit too topical for what we're talking about. It's, you know, in the future, one guy wakes up from a cryogen… an accidental cryogenic sleep, and suddenly it turns out he's the smartest human in the country, so they make him president, because he's the only one who knows, like, the most primitive things. It's a dark comedy, but,
Jerry Michalski: Right. You'll unfortunately probably enjoy it because of your setting.
Jerry Michalski: Doug, please.
Doug Breitbart: Yeah, I, I… I can't help but sort of…
Doug Breitbart: Feel that the question is sort of a straw man.
Doug Breitbart: Because it's… it's… am I…
Doug Breitbart: Judging somebody else not being curious enough is what's really being put on the table.
Doug Breitbart: And… And the underlying… the underlying active ingredient To me, is connection.
Doug Breitbart: And if somebody is… is… if I'm not in connection with the person I'm talking to.
Doug Breitbart: Then there's, there's, there's really no way to, to, to engage.
Doug Breitbart: And my experience with…
Doug Breitbart: my experience with younger folk is sort of… is a little bit bivalent. My son, who's around 30, is…
Doug Breitbart: you know, in some…
Doug Breitbart: undiagnosed way because he defied all testing. He's, you know, neurodivergent, and he falls into that category of hypersocial.
Doug Breitbart: Like, the quintessential salesman.
Doug Breitbart: And… he's endlessly curious. He is always either asking questions or Or, you know, going into…
Doug Breitbart: gymnastics. And, you know, has Ulysses-like status in the company he works in, because people have seen him repairing his own flat tires.
Doug Breitbart: Which captures this last point that was just made, that, you know, like.
Doug Breitbart: He learned how to do that, and somebody, you know, his peers think that's insanely amazing, that he knows how to do that.
Doug Breitbart: And… Conversely, there's a rationality to younger people
Doug Breitbart: Being disconnected because of the insanity of the educational system they're subjected to.
Doug Breitbart: And the difference is that…
Jerry Michalski: Certainly, this could be a rational response to a really crappy system they're embedding.
Doug Breitbart: To a really insane world that they're staring at and going, what am I, you know, what am I supposed to do with this? How am I supposed to respond to this? And I do think there is a…
Doug Breitbart: You know, as much as they may not have basic underlying skills that we have because we're creatures of the, you know.
Doug Breitbart: 20th century.
Doug Breitbart: that, they do have a clarity and awareness.
Doug Breitbart: Of their world and their position in it. And… and…
Doug Breitbart: There's a certain level of agency and empowerment
Doug Breitbart: That also came with the fact that, you know, they get what they want when they want it, what they're not interested in, they're not interested in, what they are interested in, they are interested in, everything's immediate gratification, and they are the kings and queens of their own domain via their screens.
Jerry Michalski: Hmm.
Doug Breitbart: And they're… so their whole orientation and experience of the world
Doug Breitbart: Is a completely different, like, you know, stranger in a strange land compared to my orientation.
Doug Breitbart: So it's a different world, and…
Doug Breitbart: My curiosity in that is to try to get to their understanding and perspective.
Doug Breitbart: An experience of it.
Doug Breitbart: And wanting to know that, wanting to understand that.
Doug Breitbart: From the inside out, not from the outside looking at.
Doug Breitbart: So I just wanted to toss that into the mix.
Jerry Michalski: Doug, thank you for layering in a bunch of really interesting other perspectives on the question. I mean, the…
Jerry Michalski: You've got me thinking, is curiosity a superficial trait?
Jerry Michalski: And connection is the thing we seek. And, you know, in that sense, do we need to be talking and inquiring and inquisitive in order to connect?
Jerry Michalski: And I don't think… I think the answer is, no, we don't. We can actually connect without those things.
Jerry Michalski: Sometimes really deeply.
Jerry Michalski: There's all kinds of interesting questions on the table. Judy?
Judith Benham: 5?
Judith Benham: I need to… I need to unmute.
Jerry Michalski: No, you're already unmuted.
Judith Benham: Okay,
Judith Benham: I think it's a really complicated topic, in the sense that there's intrinsic and extrinsic curiosity, and it can be enabled or made less popular by circumstantial situations, so
Judith Benham: we might want to scope this out more broadly, because I think there's a lot of intrinsic curiosity, but it can be stifled very easily if people are put down for asking questions or such. And I know I was a hugely curious kid, and so I did get suppressive comments at times.
Judith Benham: Fortunately, I got reinforcing behaviors from my family structure, so I persisted. But I think that this is a really important topic, because it's not just curiosity per se, it's acquisition of knowledge and the process of gaining perspective
Judith Benham: from examining the full scope and breadth of a topic, and I think that's a bigger question for me in the educational system right now, because I don't think we're encouraging that type of in-depth consideration of
Judith Benham: opposite points of view, for instance. If you think A, well, what is the opposite of A position? What are all the positions in between? How do you sort that out to find what seems to be the best? And that's different than, sort of, intrinsic curiosity, which I think small children have, but it can be stifled.
Judith Benham: I'll just stop there.
Jerry Michalski: And you were fortunate to grow up in an environment, in a family, that sort of counteracted other stimuli, which is great.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Judy.
Jerry Michalski: Close.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, I think we are talking about different types of curiosity, so there's this interpersonal curiosity.
Klaus Mager: Which is really very cultural. When… when the… I worked for Disney for 21 years, and when we moved to the Hong Kong project, we got set up with a relocation service, and they started us out with a book called Culture Shock Hong Kong.
Klaus Mager: And, gave us, you know, an in-depth, briefing on what to say and not to say to people.
Klaus Mager: Then I went to Germany from there after 21 years with Disney, and worked for a very large German corporation, Metro, in the, in the corporate office.
Klaus Mager: I was just shocked what people would ask me, you know? I mean… I mean, it was just… it was just so off the wall from an American perspective. Very personal questions that, if you ask that an American, you would be considered wooed, you know?
Klaus Mager: So, so there is this interpersonal, which is very cultural, and then we operated in 30 countries.
Klaus Mager: So, I mean, I would have… I would go to India, to China, to Russia, Romania, Italy, Spain, right? And it's really very unique how people have basic expectations about what you should be curious about and where the lines are.
Klaus Mager: But then there's this other curiosity about your world, your profession, the world around you, you know, the society you live in, the political life.
Klaus Mager: And to want to have a better understanding of that. And I think the information
Klaus Mager: We have available today is so amazingly more, you know, than there ever was.
Klaus Mager: Because of social media and because of the access to the internet and all of that. And it's probably overwhelming, you know, for, particularly younger people who haven't found
Klaus Mager: a foundation yet to… to know themselves more, yeah? And… and to… to be more secure in… in their own… in their own being.
Klaus Mager: So I don't know if we can randomly say that curiosity is less than what it used to be, because the world has just… the world around us has just changed so much, you know, and the information is so focused, and so concentrated, and so available.
Klaus Mager: That, I don't think we can even begin to compare ourselves to someone who lived 100 years ago, or even 50 years ago.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah.
Jerry Michalski: Doug was starting that piece of the conversation about maybe kids today are growing up in such a dramatically different world, and we're trying to apply archaic ideas about curiosity to a completely different environment. That's an interesting take.
Jerry Michalski: Eve, please.
Jerry Michalski: Dang.
Eve Blossom: Hey, wonderful to see everyone here. Well, if you'll…
Eve Blossom: Be so kind to let me share,
Eve Blossom: and integrate something else I've been thinking about.
Eve Blossom: Another angle to curiosity, and thinking about the world as it's reshaped by loss of norms and migration and digital life and climate shifts, our sense of place
Eve Blossom: is, more about the connections and meanings we choose. So curiosity intersects with this sense of place, my background is architecture, that keeps our sense of place alive rather than static, and
Eve Blossom: One where we continually rediscover what grounds us and challenges us and expands our sense of who we are in relation to the world.
Eve Blossom: So, for many, maybe 15 to 25 year olds, maybe the sense of place is shaped as much by their digital communities and global influences as by their immediate surroundings, and…
Eve Blossom: It's so different than how we all grew up, like, in the 70s, when I grew up.
Eve Blossom: Living somatically, going to the creek, looking at the tadpoles, you know, learning about things, by hiking or walking and, living in our bodies, in our own physical contexts.
Eve Blossom: So I just think it's so different. Anyway, I just want to bring up this sense of place.
Jerry Michalski: Hmm.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you very much.
Jerry Michalski: Gil.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, I've been… I've been listening to that very thing, Eve, context, throughout this whole conversation. Context and norms.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Is what's been echoing me throughout this. And, and I'm hearing Ken Homer, who's not here yet, with this question, his ever-present question about who's we.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And the corollary question of who's they?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: which has been throughout this whole conversation, where, you know, there's a whole we and they thing going on here, and it's very not specific. And it's very relevant, because we're talking about conversations with people who are other in some sort of way.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: you know, different gender, different generation, different geography, different life experience, different schooling, different roles, and so forth. So it's something about, our expectations across those differences.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And the acculturation, the norms, I've… I…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Pride and Prejudice has been rolling in my mind.
Jerry Michalski: As we're talking here.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You know, where there was a richly nurtured culture of propriety and manners and how to speak and how not to speak.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And it's different across different classes, not just between the lords and the servants, but between the landowners and the middle class and the tradespeople in town. There are very different patterns of relationship and speech and expectation and what could be asked for. And LP1, I'm sorry, I forgot your name.
Jerry Michalski: Louise.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Louise. Yeah, hi, Louise.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You know, you talked about how the French are very direct.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But the French are different in different parts of France, as the Americans are very different in different parts of the United States. Trust me, I grew up in New York and I live in the Bay Area. You know, really different standards and practices about what you talk about and what you don't, and what you can ask about and what you can't. So… so…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: All of which is to say that the we who is raising the question in this conversation, and the they who we are talking about, is a very important and unstated part of this conversation.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Gil. If you want to… if you want to brief…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Very fluid.
Jerry Michalski: If you want to deepen your own perceptions of the we's and theys, please feel free, because…
Jerry Michalski: As always, the elaboration helps us.
Jerry Michalski: Kevin, please.
Kevin Jones: Yeah, you know, Gil's comment is actually really right on to where I was going. I worked with a friend with the Eastern Band Cherokee, and we were working on a new product development for them that would diversify their income past casinos.
Kevin Jones: And, we created a thing with them for the Taste of Cherokee, and they had some
Kevin Jones: Vegetables that were… had been cultivated, that had been domesticated, that they could brand.
Kevin Jones: And, but the question that they came back with, and they took forever, because tribes do, they realized that they did not want to make food
Kevin Jones: and it was the Taste of Cherokee, right? That was the thing. They said they didn't want to be… make food a commodity. It should be something where if someone is hungry, and they come to your door, you feed them. They said that, you know, on the other hand, the Choctaw and the Chickasaw would have done it. They're more transactional tribes.
Kevin Jones: But the question that the Cherokee always ask, especially when you're dealing with the Cotua band of Cherokee, which are the more traditional and creative, is what does this decision make us in the world
Kevin Jones: under the standpoint of reciprocity. And it's like, oh, this turns
Kevin Jones: Feeding people into a commodity thing, and we sell it, and, you know, they sell their crops. They're…
Kevin Jones: double weed baskets can sell for a couple thousand dollars, because they're… they can hold water, they're amazing. But…
Kevin Jones: I haven't seen other groups say, what does this decision make us? Because, you know, this was going to do a lot for them. You know, they…
Kevin Jones: Have casino revenue, and they don't have a lot of other revenue, and
Kevin Jones: But they turned down the chance to make… to have a really popular brand in western North Carolina.
Kevin Jones: Because it…
Kevin Jones: it would make them something that they don't want to be. But it takes a tribe in a circle a long time to make that decision, and so when you're dealing with them, you know, the fastest way to get things done and work with a tribe is to have all the time in the world. And so we had posters made up, we had labels, and they just threw them away.
Kevin Jones: I mean, it was their dollar, but it was,
Kevin Jones: So that's… that's an interesting question, and I don't… I don't see white folks asking that question much.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Kevin, thank you.
Jerry Michalski: for the story. It seems like they went… they went deep into their culture.
Jerry Michalski: And thought about what were the influences or effects of… on their culture of this kind of decision, where we have…
Kevin Jones: Been born into and have assumed away a normal…
Jerry Michalski: A transactional environment.